More recently, I did have a hate account on Instagram.
They um like told me to kill myself and told me
that I like was ugly and I looked like a clown.
But then I realized they're only making fun of
me because I'm giving them attention about it.
I'm a pro social media because I like to send memes to my grandma.
I like to keep connected with my friends.
But most importantly, I think it's a useful platform and tool.
I didn't know what a trans guy was before I was on Tik Tok.
I just thought I was a, like a masculine, like girl
have social media but like, I don't use them.
I kind of just have enough posts that doesn't make me seem like a loser.
I find it really toxic because um everything's based off of numbers.
I just wanna see how if pro social media has helped
their life because it hasn't really helped me as a person.
I'm a content creator on tiktok, Instagram, Snapchat.
I'd say that I would make like 30 to $40,000 a month.
I'm antisocial media because of the present algorithms in place
windows.
No,
I think Tik Tok is because it's manipulating
their users and taking so much information from them
and they're showing that through the For you page and people don't care.
Hi, I'm Alexa.
I'm 18 years old and I'm pro social media and I
-- love social media just because of the culture it
-- brings.
Hi, I'm Phillips plural. I am on the pro side and I just like to spread awareness.
Hi, I'm Alex. I'm 16. I'm on Instagram, tiktok and a little bit of youtube
and I am pro social media because it helped me meet
a lot of other trans kids when I was struggling.
Hi, I'm Ella.
I'm 15 and I'm antisocial media because I
find it really toxic and competitive for myself.
Hi, I'm Emma. I'm 18
and I am antisocial media and I'm the CEO of a movement
-- that works to kind of promote a healthier existence on
-- social media.
My name is Emmy. I'm 16.
I'm antisocial media because of personal experience and like general anxiety.
I
want
to
go
on
that.
Yeah,
I'm gonna read out a prompt if you agree, step forward
and if you disagree, stay
good.
I spend more than three hours on social media daily.
I definitely find myself scrolling for hours when I'm bored and
-- I definitely get sucked in and I can't stop
-- for me.
Um, a lot of my school stuff got pushed to social media, all the clubs and orgs.
Another one that's more personal to me is that um keeps you in touch with your family.
All my family is in Vietnam. So,
yeah.
Yeah.
And a lot of my friends are online and I'm just like, on their account, you know,
like hyping them up or just like texting them on Instagram because I don't,
-- I don't like to use regular
-- tag.
It's definitely my number one source of entertainment.
I don't watch as much youtube or Netflix and I kind of just go through Tik Tok and like,
that's what brings me joy.
Sometimes
Tik
Tok
is
-- short attention
-- spans.
You get sucked in like you go on for like 30 minutes, you're just there forever.
-- And that happens to me all
-- the time.
But sometime I spend more time comparing myself to others.
-- Oh, I'm not getting that many likes and it kind of brings me
-- down.
But um if I went on Tik Tok and I kind of
just analyzed everyone and just was like trying to compare myself,
then it would definitely bring me down.
But just as a content creator, I just have the mindset of like, oh,
this is what you make and maybe I can make it differently
prior to a movement. I started called log off.
I spent about five hours on social media day and it
was to talk with my sister who was in college,
but I also got really bad um repercussions about
my body and I felt really terrible after scrolling.
But you know, after I rethought about how I wanted to spend my time on there,
it became much more productive.
So I still spend time on like Instagram.
It's just to like, get a meme from my college sister or to like,
talk with friends that really bring me up.
-- I
-- have an Instagram, I have a tiktok but like, I never open the app. Like,
ever, I'm clearly not the skinniest and like I have alopecia.
So I'm losing my hair and like, I'll look on social media and like,
I'll see some like K pop star and they're like a double zero with the
longest hair on the planet and they're like s like their skin is silk smooth.
And when I take pictures, no matter what I do,
you can see the whites of my scalp.
So I don't take photos and because I don't take photos,
I don't have anything to post and because I don't have anything to post,
I don't see a point in opening the app.
Plus I'd rather spend my time reading.
I used to be more um meek and mild.
I was just like, oh no, they're gonna call me, I'm ugly and they're gonna hate on me.
But then um when tiktok started blowing up,
one of my videos blew up and I was just like, hey, they don't hate me and I was just like,
oh OK, the confidence it's coming in
and I get 100 notifications a day from my best friend saying I found this new video
you would love and I'll click on it occasionally
and I love the video because it's funny,
it's short and it like matches my personality,
but it makes me really upset when like I facetime
with my friend and she's scrolling through Tik Tok.
It's really scary to see my friends kind of disconnect with
me and just connect with these people they've never met.
-- What do you think is the
-- misconception pro social media people
that we're narcs and that we kind of hate social media.
Like parents hate social media.
I don't think they really know our stories and know why exactly we
don't want to exist on the platforms in the way that they are.
I've had hurtful things posted about me and the thing about the internet, it's,
it's there forever and it's not like a word that was just said to me on the playground.
It's something that's out there and other people can see
social media
makes you antisocial.
There can be communities found within social media,
but my personal experience with it
and from a lot of stories that I've heard through log off is
that a lot of kids have lost people because of social media.
And I think that that constant mindless scrolling
allows you to kind of go into this bubble and
just hunker down and to not really talk with people.
I know a bunch of kids that like,
don't know how to communicate outside of like an emoji
or like outside of like a picture or like,
only have a one picture face and like, we repeatedly take the same, like,
we'll stop everyone in the friend group to pick a wall and just
sit there and pose and take 100 photos and stand there and wait,
they're like, no, no, I'll take one more.
-- I
-- definitely like would base like entire friend groups to
hang out and just take pictures like we wouldn't communicate.
It would just be pictures just to post on Instagram. And then
I would find myself that like we didn't even connect when we were hanging out.
It was wasn't quality time because I feel like, oh,
I have to get that perfect photo of all of that.
All of us looking like we're having fun even if we're not,
-- I just need to get that so I can
-- post it after a while.
You feel the pressure and everything.
People start being people and they're just empty profile pictures.
People will come to me and they won't know my name. They'll go by my screen name
and then I'm just like uh am I human?
I like to ask questions and comments and ask like, oh,
where did you get that or you know like what
hair dye did you use or something like that?
Because I think it's a lot more engaging or I
like to sometimes I'll make my like my post,
I'll make it a question.
Like the the the caption,
I like to interact with like a lot
of my followers through comments because I'm uncomfortable,
you know, messaging them personally.
-- It's good to like interact with the people that support
-- you.
But what would you say to like bigger influence
like Kylie Jenner, like Kim Kardash
-- that can't have that interaction via the comments
-- and then Alex,
some people just don't even reply to you.
-- Those just double tap, like the message going
-- off.
What you said about like making real human connection.
Have you ever like looked into like social media accounts to like promote that
because I don't know if you guys know we're not really strangers.
If you guys know them, they have a card game, you don't know.
OK,
so it's ba basically a card game
where you have perception analysis and then reflection
and then you just have conversations like or how are you really or you know,
if how is like, what's, what do you, what do you,
what would you name the chapter of this in your life?
And then boom,
we're in a 20 minute conversation that like she
feels really low and she's trying to change.
And the, and you know,
and I would have never thought that if this social media account
didn't push me or didn't encourage me to have deeper conversations.
I agree.
But I think the issue is with the algorithm in
place like that's not popping up on my feed.
Like I'm not, I don't know that those exist and because it's so expansive
and because there's so much hollowness and mindless scrolling, like,
I've never found that if I found that I would have loved that
-- with the
-- algorithm and the fact that you never see those things,
like I always feel like we're on a whole different side of tiktok than you are
and all it takes is just to look up like deep conversations on the internet.
There would have been a vogue article about we're not
really friends and then you would have looked it up,
you know.
So in order to change your algorithm,
you just have to change the things that you're looking for.
But don't you think maybe like the algorithm in place is what's
making it so dangerous because it's like they're pumping out these really terrible
kind of like content videos.
But also you've got like the attention economy
where they're like fighting to get your information
-- to then give to people like to put ads in your feed that you won't
-- notice.
Even if you're not on social media, you know, it's gonna do that anyway.
Like if you're searching anything on,
like if you're searching something up on safari
and you go onto your computer onto Chrome,
the ads will probably be the same, you know, it's just,
-- it's just technology,
-- you know.
Um I sat down here saying that social media makes people antisocial.
But hearing Alexa and Alex speak,
it makes me remember that um social media isn't just, you know,
the whole tiktok scene.
It's also schools, there's clubs and stuff.
Um I've made a couple of new friends from social media
because um they live in Ventura, I live in San Diego.
So I don't think it's necessarily just the whole big fame thing.
There's also the smaller group.
Yeah. I, I'd like to say social media changed my life. I'm uh more confident.
I actually think about what I wear. I used to just roll out bed, grab what's near.
I do see how social media can be bad, but I, I like to think of it in a positive light.
I have been bullied on social media.
Mhm
I know you guys remember like those musically days,
I feel like that was my biggest bullying because it's like when you,
it's just like entering a whole different society,
it's just like when you're going out, you're making
videos,
you don't really know what you wanna post or what
you wanna do or what you wanna look like.
So it is gonna be cringy at first and it's not gonna be great.
-- Musically
-- was definitely a dark time.
Um More recently, I did have a hate account on Instagram.
They um like told me to kill myself and told me that like,
because I was upset about my pet dying that I should kill myself.
And that
I like, was ugly and I looked like a clown and, yeah, I really, really,
really let it get to me for a long time.
But then I realized, you know, like,
they're only making fun of me because I'm giving them attention about it.
So I just had to, like,
block them from all my accounts and block
all the people they were following and block
all the people that were following them and then I just had to stop looking.
And if I don't look at it,
-- then I don't know what they're saying.
-- Right. And that's the thing.
It's just like, once you stop looking into it, it's,
you just stop beating the fire and it will die eventually because
-- you just don't even pay it. No mind.
-- I don't have a big following.
So it's mostly,
mostly people I know usually it's Tik Toks and it's not with my name in it,
but you can tell that it's implied towards me
and I try not to comment but like,
there's some points where they're coming out and saying like,
completely false things about me posting and hating on someone through the
internet is completely different from in person because it's there forever.
You don't have control over that because it's up to them to delete it.
So I
have had rude comments been made about me, but I've never been like,
heavily cyberbullied because I don't really have a big
following and because of the community that I'm in,
I've just read hundreds of stories about kids who, like,
felt like they wanted to kill themselves because
of the rude comments they were getting.
And I just remember like, there were nights when I,
-- I would cry and I'd be so upset because I couldn't really do anything about
-- it.
My cyberbullying experience the first, like,
big one I was in like this like dance team, right?
And I was the shortest kid, the fattest kid and like one of like three Asians.
So I clearly stuck out no matter what I did. And
you know, like after practice,
like all the girls would like do that like 2014 like ass out like
like the duck face thing pose one day,
like one of them like invited me to take the photo with them and
I thought like this was the only way you could pose on Instagram.
So like I did it and then
they took the photo and they were all like laughing and they started uploading it.
I didn't know why over like the next 2.5, 3 years,
they would continuously like bring me into the photo.
Like I would never just go up, they'd always ask me, hey, do you wanna be in the photo?
Do you wanna be in the photo? So I felt like I was being included.
But when I like got a phone and when I got on
Instagram and when I started following like my fellow dance team members,
I would look at their Instagrams and like from the beginning it's photos of me.
They'll zoom in on me and they'll be like, look at that fat thing, that
monster like, is it trying to pose?
Like what is like, what does that thing think it is? Like, do they think they're cute?
I wasn't like
elementary school. Like, I don't know how to deal with myself.
Like I barely know how to open a peanut butter jar and
you expect me to know how to deal with people calling me it
and like a monster. You know what I mean?
-- Social media can cause young people to hurt
-- themselves.
Instagram,
tiktok. Everything is the highlight reel.
My Instagram,
I'm not gonna post the ugliest picture of me when I scroll to my friends,
I in the back of my head, I should know that that, that's the same for them
yet. I'm like, they look so pretty. Why do I not look like that?
And I think for younger generations it's really scary
-- that they're gonna have to deal with
-- this.
I have this one photo that's so vivid in my memory and like
I'm at like an aquarium and I'm leaning against
like one of the fish tanks and my dad and
my dad and my brother are next to me and I'm
like half my brother's height,
my face sagging my body like my clothes don't fit on me.
And I'm like, at that time I didn't realize how depressed I was and how,
how much these, like, these, like, dance photos were ruining me.
That's kind of when I knew like, social media is not something I like,
I'm not safe here, you know, and so
an excuse I can make for not pleasing people online
is that I don't use it and then I'll be
ok.
The thing, the bad thing about social media is like,
if you have a bad friend in real life and your mom's like, avoid them,
don't be next to them and stuff.
But on social media, you almost can't avoid them.
And I feel like that's where like a lot,
a lot of kids can get hurt because they common root things on your
things or they don't share the same opinions and those friends are horrible.
-- You know, I don't
-- know how Tumblr is now because I don't go on it,
but there are a lot of like self harm pages and eating
sort of pages with like ideas to make yourself lose weight.
There's so much of that on Tumblr that I had to get off of Tumblr.
Um And I think that definitely will hurt kids now and in the future,
I just can't imagine being like 10 or 11 or 12 just being
so young and looking through this and taking all these suggestions in,
I'm 18 now, like I go through it and I know better.
But I feel like you could get seriously hurt when
-- you're young because you really just don't know any
-- better.
Yeah. I'll just play back on what you said about how little kids don't know better.
I saw a hack where it was like scoop ice cream and it said microwave the spoon.
Most, most Children wouldn't know. Yeah.
In cases like that it does hurt me to be pro social media. But social media,
I, I think it was always more intended for more discretion.
-- Like I, I have
-- this friend named Jessie Page and she is very,
very like pro body positivity and like pro like, like mental health, you know,
like really, like I wanna get better.
That's why I keep all my posts up because I want people to be
able to go back and look I wasn't on t for three years,
you know, when I was out, you know,
like I was fully out and like fighting for myself to start hormones.
My friend Jessie too, she also
puts before and after she always puts like this is the real me.
Do you
think
social media
has
changed your
life
100%? I don't think I would be the person I am if it wasn't for social media.
I first came out on Tik Tok and my parents didn't even know that's how they found out.
Actually,
Children under the age of 13
should not be allowed on social media.
Well, um it's kind of funny because I talked to a lot of organizations with log off.
And the main point that they try to get across is that they're trying
to advocate for kids to get cell phones and technology and social media at
an older age.
Um, and, you know, years ago I would have said that's really stupid.
That's like the drug talk, like, don't do drugs, don't be on social media.
I'm not gonna listen to that.
But then after years of kind of self reflection,
I wish someone would have said you don't need Instagram to have a social
-- life
-- if I go back to like my 13 year old self and like,
I didn't have all the experiences I had and I just kind of knew like, oh,
it's a good place I would be posting
God knows what
right. Kids are dumb
and if you give kids a platform to do whatever they want,
they're gonna be dumb.
There's no educational advocacy out there to actually allow for that to happen.
And when they are there,
it's this older teacher who like has a completely different outlook on social
media because they never existed in an age where it was your life.
You know, I just feel like it's almost, it's just unrealistic when I was 13,
I was fully on social media making videos every single day.
So I just feel like if anything, it helped me more when I was 13,
like it really allowed me to just
know what things were and not be so what is going on.
-- Like, you know, not knowing a lot of things
-- because like, I was on social media,
like 11 years old, like I was a child and on social media and my,
my dad told me he was like, you know, but you're also trans and you're also like LGBT,
you know,
you need to be able to meet people because your bubble
that you would know of trans people would be zero.
Here's the thing we, we, I think we're underestimating Children.
They're relentless.
We put an age limit on Instagram or an age limit on like um an adult type website.
They're still gonna get through.
I didn't have social media.
I was probably like the last couple of people out of my like friends because
my mom knew the restrictions and how the things that are on the internet is.
You can't control what other people are posting and
you can't control what your kids are seeing.
But I believe that like other kids mature at different ages and we can't
really rest like restrict certain people from
going on this platform when it's public.
It's difficult because I,
I do think what you said is true where if I was 13 and someone said you have
to be 13 to get on this app or you or like you have to be older,
I would have lied about my,
my age and I know there are millions of kids like that that are like, he, he,
he break the system and be, like, put in a different age.
-- See,
-- that's the thing with any problem.
You can't just take the problem and move it over here.
It's all about the education. It should be a class, like how sex ed is,
-- there should be like tech ed, like
-- computer lab days exist.
Like, was that just my school? Like, there were computer lab days or something?
We
just practice typing
when you practice typing, like, instead of just practicing typing,
practice how to not be an idiot online and, like, how to, like, learn and understand,
like, the harm of it because, like, if I had that education,
I know that, like, I would have, like, at
least braced myself for it
once COVID kinda hit I realized like, I need social media
or else I can't, like, find anyone.
I know some people that kind of think, like,
when I say that I don't use social media a lot, they're like, oh,
do you think you're cooler than us because you don't need, like,
social media validation?
But
it's more like I'm afraid of if I search for that validation that I'm not gonna get it.
Social media
more than my school heart.
Yes.
I know all schools they don't talk about some deep topics that social media brings
to light and it teaches you and it teaches you how to get through it
and how to do it without talking to your family if you are uncomfortable and
without talking to the school because sometimes
schools don't have that education in place.
-- My
-- teacher told everyone
that Rupaul's drag race was a good example of trans people.
Of course, like I got in trouble for like, correcting him or whatever,
but it was like, I could not let him spread fake information like that.
Those are not trans people, those are drag queens.
And that is a totally different topic. I'm very far in my transition for 16 and
it social media definitely helped me a lot.
And then the fact that you even got in trouble for that shows that school is that like,
you know, they're lacking,
-- you
-- know, personal experience is how you learn the most, you know,
you go on social media and there's someone talking about this eating disorder,
this depression that they went to.
It's just someone actually talking to a camera giving you
real advice that a school really can never do.
I wanna preface it with. I am kind of like, I'm very lucky.
Um The school that I go to Altamont is
like a private school in Alabama and they're very,
very good with kind of integrating
these conversations into the academic dialogue.
I, I totally agree with everything y'all have said.
I've learned how to Rainbow Loom and I've
done a bunch of different things on social media
but I've also looked up like election
and there's been misinformation after misinformation and with COVID.
So
for y'all that answered, how do you,
how you kind of outweigh like the chance to learn a bunch of new things,
but also the chance of seeing a lot of stuff that isn't necessarily true.
-- I
-- think you just have to look for credible websites.
I mean, it's just like when you're doing an essay, you wouldn't
believe. I, I just feel like blogs, any of that kind of stuff.
It is easy to get a lot of misinformation,
but it's also easy to see that this information is fake.
-- Like, but
-- what about like a young kid that can't really discern that?
-- Because I feel like
-- that's the,
my dad actually um put the Washington Post and the New York Times
on my phone so that I would look at it more.
So I would get the notifications, you know, all I had to do was put it on my phone.
There have been times when I've disagreed with what the teacher said
and
that that is true.
But I also think that with social media, with the algorithm in place,
it's harder to harder like to discern,
-- I disagree with you
-- just because I feel like as kids,
we look up to our teachers for the right answers and if they are
like providing like a bias answer,
-- we're getting the wrong information.
-- If you've taken
a
science class
there will be times where the teacher's own political beliefs
might make the learning bias so comparable to social media.
It's about the same. Yeah.
-- But I
-- think it's more dangerous on social media because I,
I agree it is very dangerous in the classroom,
especially when you look up to teachers with the algorithm.
They don't have that humanity for to like to actually discern like, oh,
this is an article about how masks aren't important.
So like, but I'm gonna pump that out.
But I would
just, I would disagree with you for that exact
reason because
because it's just one human, one way of life, one perspective, one thought,
you know, but at least when you go on social media and you put up Trump,
it's gonna come up both sides of the story, you know,
when it's up to you to differentiate and read it and see, OK,
-- this comes from this credible website and this is coming from a blog on
-- Wikipedia.
What if we're talking about like,
just a straightforward thing like math science or English?
Sometimes you can get like a cruddy teacher and they won't really teach you that.
Well, you just type that into social media.
They ring it.
I've never
like, I've never
been held by a math teacher. I mean, photo math was the only thing that helped me.
I mean, and it's not even like it only gave me the answers.
I mean,
you saw like you scrolled up and it literally shows you step
by step what it does and you look for the reasoning,
here's the reasoning.
-- And sometimes
-- if I have a lot of trouble with like an assignment or something,
I'll actually like post a picture of it and I'll be like, hey,
like I am really bad in this subject.
Every single time people do message me and help me out or like we comment and be like,
hey, like actually this is what you're doing wrong and this is how you do it right?
Society would thrive
without social.
I don't know if
we
for me on a macro scale,
I think there are some really um troubling signs that social media is kind
of unwinding society and humanity in the sense of like the democracy debate,
governments can use social media to then kind of undermine elections.
Um And I think those are bigger issues when you look at the macro scale.
But again, on the micro scale,
-- there are so many different people in the world that
-- would thrive with it.
I know other people that are like me,
I think I would thrive more without social media because I kind of I compare
myself and I look for those likes and look for those comments on my posts.
And I feel like if I didn't have that concern my mental health and my self love and
self image would be so much better if I didn't see all this stuff on the internet.
But part of me wants to ask for like a def a definition for like thrive because like,
are we talking about like
us as like a human race or like people
individually Instagram and things and like put like make
you have poor body image and this that but also like in the case of like Alex,
you know, it helps him, you know,
meet other trans people and understand that like he isn't alone, right?
And so it,
it's such a general question with so many variables that
like you can't just like put one answer down.
Yeah,
-- you need so
-- case by case you need to know if it's on the micro macro
scale and you know,
like Alex is a following that is a lot of other trans kids that are
looking for other trans kids and if Alex just went mi a for a month,
people would panic, you know, and like, you know, like I can totally like,
sorry to like keep using you but like, like this is like the easiest like,
like analogy, right?
I'm sorry, Alex,
I love
it.
I was
-- like, this is just like the
-- easiest example.
Um I have a question actually.
Um so I, in the recent months,
especially there have been a lot of protests and stuff that were
like a lot of them were created online and I think that if we didn't have social media,
a lot of them wouldn't have been possible because
there wouldn't have been the word spread so fast.
I, I agree. Yes. These protests got really big and it's really important.
But I,
the thing that I've kind of been looking at is the
people that go and take a picture and they like,
oh my God, like, I, I'm so supportive and like, they change their profile picture.
They do the blackout Tuesday and then a week later
it gets archived when people go with like professional grade cameras
and like bring a hair and makeup team to like sit
there and like pose in the middle of the street.
-- Like it's less of the movement and more of the social
-- media and yeah,
and I think that's also a perspective thing because I think there was maybe one or two
major influencers who were dumb enough to take a
production team out there to take a picture.
And I think that was for people like you
guys who are antisocial media to focus be like,
wow, see, look at all these influencers.
It's the whole entire community is just like them.
And I was in New York for a couple of
days and I was in like Washington Square or something.
They were passing out flyers like, hey,
share this on your Snapchat if you know anyone in New York
and I wasn't only in New York for like two days,
but I posted it and I got like, I don't know,
like 40,000 people on Snapchat to watch it and be, and if they were in New York,
-- they could
-- go by these like, performative parts.
I'm not talking, only influencers like, yes, that is a big part.
And it is very troublesome when influencers do, like, kind of go out and like,
pose for like the picture rather than for the protest.
But
when
people kind of seeing like, oh,
this is trendy and when people have that desire to like go viral,
-- they'll go out and they'll do
-- it.
But here's like a scenario. What if um me,
Alex, I mean, Alex, Alex and Alexa,
we all just teamed up, we did like a charity stream and then donated to, let's say,
let's, let's just throw back to like early 2020 whether it was like fires
wouldn't
California or Australia thrive from us donating.
I do agree that um social media does like,
promote awareness and it helps change and definitely in our societies,
everyone's on social media.
So if they see this and it gets spread, it's gonna make change. Yeah.
And that's kind of why I made like the log off movement is
because I saw that there was this multifaceted nature about social media and
at least just wanted to discuss it with teens and to be like,
let's figure out how to exist in a healthier way.
And um even though social media, we can talk about the good and the bad all day,
it's just nice to be in one space and have one conversation.
I mean, yeah, technically, social media did bring us here.
So I guess that's a good thing. Like, hey, we don't have to talk about that.
Hi, everyone. Wish you a very happy New Year and hope you enjoyed this episode.
I personally struggle a lot with my social media usage.
So recently I bought an alarm clock so that the phone
is not the first thing I look at in the morning and
I'm not tempted to go on social media if you have
any suggestions as to how you control your social media usage,
feel free to leave in the comments section below.
And thanks for watching.